Starter of Pattern Matching in Rust (#6)
wch510719826/rust-advertisement: Pattern Matching in Rust.md

## Pattern Matching in Rust

Pattern matching is one of those features that are still lacking in C/C++. Although it is not a new concept, pattern matching is fully supported in Rust, which renders it a new feature compared to C/C++.

In this summary, we'll take a look at pattern matching in Rust and why it becomes critical to have.

### The Syntactic Sugar

At first glance, pattern matching looks like syntactic sugar for switch statement, a simplistic example of calculating Fibonacci in Rust:

```rust
fn Fib(n: i32) -> i32 {
    match n {
        1 => 1,
        2 => 2,
        _ => fib(n - 1) + fib(n - 2),
    }
}
```

It looks quite similar to the switch replica:

```c++
int Fib(int n) {
	switch (n) {
	case 1: return 1;
	case 2: return 2;
	default: return fib(n - 1) + fib(n - 2);

> 	}

Reviewer: tab is used here

}
```

> However, pattern matching is capable of type matching and binding, which works wonders when it comes to error handling. For example, it is quite common to check and retrieve from a collection in C++:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, `switch` statement only matches variables of integral type in C++ (often an enum class is used in place of  magic numbers). This is pretty primitive and may become verbose when more than one variable are needed to determine a dispatch.

But in Rust, a `match` statement can match variables of any type. With the combination of structual information and type system, Rust's pattern matching is able to deliver a neat, powerful, and type-safe control flow.

For example, it is quite common to check and retrieve from a collection in C++:
```

```c++
std::map<int, int> table;

void MapCheckAndRetrieve(int input) {
	if (table.count(input) > 0) {
		std::cout << table[input] << std::endl;
	}
	else {
		std::cout << "key " << input << " doesn't exist";
	}
}
```

Though checking then accessing feels a bit verbose, we can put the checking part into a catch clause:

```c++
std::map<int, int> table;

void MapRetrieve(int input) {
	try {
		std::cout << table.at(input) << std::endl;
	}
	catch (...) {
		std::cout << "key " << input << " doesn't exist";
	}
}
```

With pattern matching, it can get even better:

```rust
let table: HashMap<i32, i32>;

fn MapRetrieve() {
    let input = 0;
    match table.get(&input) {
        Some(val) => println!("{}", val),
        None => println!("key {} doesn't exist", input),
    }
}
```

The result of the retrieval operation can properly be handled whether it is an error or a success. It doesn't have to access the object twice nor does it have to stuff the code with try-catch clauses.

> This is only the tip of the iceberg. When the control flow and data structure get more complicated, pattern matching will become more of a necessity than a quality of life change, as we'll demonstrate with a practical example in the next section.

Reviewer: This is a big topic of error handling in rust. I would rather suggest you to open a single section for it, and move the below message-dispatching code as the `for-example`.

Please check this thread:
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/42917566/what-is-this-question-mark-operator-about

You need to at least introduce the `?` operator here for the error handling.

Author: Added chapter 'Pattern Matching and Error Handling'
